1. I would implement string interpolation by having a two token types `STRING_INTERPOLATE_START` and `STRING_INTERPOLATE_END`, which would mark the start and end boundaries of the string interpolation. When the boundary is reached, the compiler will expect an expression to be parsed, which would be parsed as an expression normally would. Thus, an expression can contain further strings, with further string interpolation markers.
2. According to the [Java documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se9/html/jls-3.html), there is explicitly a special case for translating consecutive right angle brackets `>` into separate tokens for the numerical comparison operator, precisely to address the problem of mutiple angle brackets at the end of a type like `List<Set<String>>`.
3. An example of a contextual keyword in Java is `var`, which is not technically a keyword but an identifier with a special meaning if used as a type.
One pro of contextual keywords is that they allow more words to be used by a user of the language. Another pro of contextual keywords is that they allow new keywords to be introduced to a language without breaking backwards compatibility.
One downside of contextual keywords is that their appearance outside of the specific context can confuse a reader, who may be expecting the keyword to take on a special meaning. Another downside of contextual keywords is that limiting their context can limit their usefulness, so probably not all keywords can be implemented as contextual keywords.